- [Instructor] We're going to spend a lot more time talking
about SQL injection or challenge exercises
as well as how to prevent it.
While this attack vector continues to be a major issue,
it is rather easily mitigated.
So we're not going to go into the web specific examples.
If you're interested in how to mitigate those,
check out my other course on secure coding here
on the LinkedIn Learning Library,
I do want to spend a bit of time to talk about
some of those other injection attacks
however that are prevalent in Java
LDAP injection attacks can be a common internal attack
within enterprise systems.
Obviously LDAP is used outside of enterprises,
but it does seem to be more prevalent
within the enterprise itself.
LDAP injection has caused like all injection
from not sanitizing the input
before submitting it to an interpreter.
Consider the following query for LDAP
to authenticate a user.
We're doing a query here where sn is USERSN
and userPassword equals a variable USERPASWORD.
Now,
consider taking some non-sanitized inputs for both fields.
For instance a username of F* and a password of *.
What happens here is that this will return all users
whose username actually starts with F
so my username would show up in most systems.
Now the real way to solve this with LDAP injection
because it doesn't give you the framework to prevent it
like you get with sequel,
is to actually check your inputs before submitting them.
And I put a little snippet of code here that you could use.
So what this says here
is not,
if the username variable matches some word with a star
or,
not password matches some word with a star.
So in both cases * would return true you not it,
which makes it or condition itself true.
And you would get an illegal argument exception.
In addition we could put some letter
in than a star because we've included this word value.
So really what we're doing is we're checking
against all cases where * is present
with or without a word.
And if we get to that,
we're going to to throw an exception
before we submit the query.
This is a pretty standard way of checking inputs
in a Java application where the frameworks themselves
don't have built in protection.
XPath injection isn't the most common injection attack.
However there still are a lot of people
who use XSLT applications
that have XML and XPath embedded in.
And there are probably more than a few XML databases,
still out there in the wild.
Now,
once again like all injection attacks,
it's caused by a lack of sanitizing our input.
However,
it is much more similar to sequel injection remediation
than just raw input validation like we saw with LDAB.
Because most of the frameworks that do XPath allow
you to set parameterized queries.
Now these attacks can be dangerous and injecting
and manipulating data.
What's XSLT for instance?
A lot of ETL operations still rely on XML,
and use XPath to process the data.
So you do need to be cognizant of what you're doing,
if you're using XPath to protect yourself.
A lot of times these are going to be internal applications,
but as I've said before
the internal users tend to be the most dangerous,
especially if they're disgruntled.
Now XPath libraries all differ quite a bit.
So I'm not really going to show an example,
because there's a good chance it won't match your library.
But all of the good ones have one thing in common.
And that is they have the ability to create a query
and use parameterized inputs,
just like we saw with SQL.
So check the documentation of the XPath library
that you're using
and find a way to submit those queries,
using parameterized inputs.